In this section we're going to look at virtual private networks or VPN and VPN solutions provide for
secure access across insecure mediums such as the Internet allowing for the connection of branch offices
home offices business partners and remote telecommuters to all or some part of a corporate network VPN
have become very popular because of low cost high bandwidth Internet connectivity which allows for secure
encrypted connections back to Central sites previously remote offices to connect to the central office
or head office through expensive leased lines or dial up phone lines.
VPN ads have helped reduce network costs by allowing for secure connections through broadband technology
such as DSL and cable these days VPN can transport mission critical data voice over IP and clients of
applications without compromising quality or security.
In this section and a look at an overview of BP ends at CCNY level they just expect you to have an appreciation
of BP and but in my experience I find people get really confused if you just gloss over some of the
terms and technologies and VPN components and that's I'm going to delve into it a little bit more detail.
We're going to explain what IP SEC is what encryption is what authentication is and what integrity is
all vital components in a VPN.
So again what is a VPN a VPN is an encrypted connection between private networks over a public network
such as the Internet.
So it's a virtual private network which allows for the sending of traffic securely across an insecure
medium.
Thus you can send private data and private information across the Internet without the worry of someone
intercepting and reading your information to keep the data private.
The traffic is encrypted so that confidentiality is maintained.
Instead of using a dedicated connection between two sites such as a leased line we are using a public
infrastructure such as the Internet to send data securely from one private network.
Let's say a home network where a user's telecommuting to a central office or head office where the user's
accessing for instance an Oracle database so secure data is sent between these two private sites across
the public Internet now bit of history.
Why the requirement for VPN or IP vision forwards created in the 1970s and in those days network security
wasn't a big issue.
It's important to realize that IP transmits a lot of data as clear text which is often referred to as
transmitting in the clear data is just transported in raw form with no encryption.
Lots of private information including usernames and passwords so authentication information and other
private data is transmitted in clear text and if captured can easily be read by hackers and other individuals
is a simple example of a sniffer capture of a user logging into an FTB server and you can clearly see
that the user name is anonymous available in clear text and the password of Cisco is also shown in clear
text.
So when you connect for instance to a web server it that web server is not using encrypted HDP your
username and password for instance will be sending clear text which is easy to capture and read all
information transmitted in an email.
For example is sending clear text we are some examples of text protocols for instance if DP all the
data as well as the authentication information is sending clear text.
If you tell leading to a Rada or a switch or your authentication information isn't clear text so usernames
and passwords can easily be captured as well as any commands that you type on the rota or switch.
So as an example if you type show run the entire running configuration could be captured.
There are some really powerful hacking tools available on the internet please note I don't recommend
you using them but just be aware that they exist.
An example would be Cain and Abel which is extremely powerful and can capture usernames and passwords
from multiple protocols including those listed here.
Just do a search for Cain and Abel in Google and you can see this website.
Oh excited or I.T. provides Cain and Abel for free.
And has really powerful features for capturing and recovering passwords you use this program at your
own risk.
And again I don't recommend that you use it but be aware that it exists.
It's A.P. sends the contents of mail messages into a text so does pop 3.
So does HDP so does is an MP version one.
So be aware a lot of the protocol that we use in everyday environments send information and clear text
which could be captured and read on undesirables cryptography.
Like so many other things in life as its own terminology.
Some of the terms that you need to understand firstly what an algorithm is.
An algorithm is detailed steps or performing a function and a cipher is an example of an encryption
algorithm.
We look at a lot of the algorithms in the next few slides but as an example days triple days and a yes
or encryption algorithms used for taking clear text data and putting it into non readable form or ciphertext
In other words encrypted data.
The two main types of encryption algorithms that we're going to look at in this course the first one
is a symmetric algorithm symmetric algorithm is where the same key is used for encryption and decryption
and secret key algorithms like DayZ triple days in a yes or symmetric encryption algorithms.
An asymmetric algorithm is an algorithm in which different keys are used for encryption and decryption
public key algorithm such as RSA or asymmetric encryption algorithms to look at those in more detail
in a moment but just be aware that with a symmetric algorithm the same key is used to encrypt and decrypt
with an asymmetric algorithm.
A different key is used to encrypt versus decrypt.
So what is a key.
A key is a bit of information that is required to decrypt the message usually in the form of a value
that is used with a cipher to encrypt the message.
It's important that the key remain secret in order for the message to remain private.
Think of a key as a password a key or password is used with an encryption algorithm and together they
make the data secret think of it as follows the algorithm is well-known and can be read about in books.
You can look on Wikipedia.
There's lots of documentation explaining various algorithms like a s triple days and days however the
key is a secret valley.
A key use with an algorithm makes the data unique.
What are we trying to accomplish.
There are four things that you typically want to accomplish in a VPN.
The first one and the one most people think about is data confidentiality or encryption where no one
else should be able to read the information by manipulating the data that is sent across the public
infrastructure.
In other words if a hacker captures your information on the Internet that hackers should not be able
to decrypt or read the information data.
Confidentiality is provided by using encryption algorithms with associated keys.
The second goal is data integrity and yeah we want to know that the data has traversed unchanged between
the two parties.
For instance if party A in something to party B party B wants to know that that data has not been manipulated
or changed in transit the data has arrived without changes as it was sent by party a.
The third goal is data origin authentication the receiver of the data needs to be able to verify that
the data that it received could only have originated from the sender.
In other words the so-called sender is the actual sender that we believe them to be.
The receiver wants to be able to authenticate the source of the packet that arrived guaranteeing and
certified who the source of the information actually is and then the fourth goal is empty replay protection.
We want to verify that each packet is unique and is not duplicated so he has a very basic example of
confidentiality or encryption and is one of the earliest forms of encryption used by Caesar.
Years and years ago if a hacker captured the following text MJ que Kuti.
What does it mean.
Well two things have been done to this text.
The first is that an algorithm has been applied to clear text with a key so in this example the algorithm
used is a so-called Caesar's algorithm where data has been moved to the right hand side and the key
space or key used is 5.
Now if you reverse that process in other words move the letters by 5 to the left hand side.
This can be decrypted as Hello.
Just take an alphabet look at em for example move by five letters and you'll get an h.
And so forth and so on.
So if a hacker captured the encrypted text he or she would have to know firstly which algorithm was
used and secondly what the key is.
Once you know those two pieces of information it's just a matter of reversing the algorithm.
So there is a very simple example of data confidentiality we encryption this is the process involved
with encryption.
We firstly take some secret data which is in clear text.
This might be an order or a confidential email or some data that is in clear text that we want to keep
it confidential.
We then take a key in combination with an algorithm let's say a yes or advanced encryption standard.
I'll explain more about the algorithms in a moment but for now just understand that you take the original
data which is in clear text.
You take a key you take the encryption algorithm the clear text when sent through the encryption algorithm
with a specific key results in ciphertext or encrypted data that encrypted data can then be sent across
a public infrastructure such as the Internet and an undesirable like a hacker will not be able to read
information because it's encrypted the receiving party will receive the encrypted data and will reverse
the process.
So in other words by applying the same algorithm and the same key but in the reverse direction the encrypted
data is reversed back to the original clear text data and the receiving party can read the information.
So it's a simple process where you take the text data you apply an encryption algorithm with a key to
it which results in ciphertext the sender then transmits that across an insecure medium such as the
Internet.
The receiver reverses the process by applying the same key.
If it's a symmetric algorithm and the algorithm that reverses the process which results in the original
text data now an algorithms key space or key length is a set of all possible values for that algorithm.
I find this confuses a lot of people someone explain it by using an IP address and that keys produces
a 2 to the N key space size.
So by looking at a class A address as an example an IP version for addresses 32 bits in size the network
portion is 8 bits and the host portion is 24 bits.
So 2 to the power of 24 gives you over 16 and a half billion options or host addresses in theory.
So think about it as follows at 24 but he spaced results in over 16 and a half billion combinations.
So keep that in mind when we look at the key spaces available in the various algorithms.
The greater the key space the harder it's gonna be to crack the encryption algorithm because there are
more combinations available.